Docs clarification culling behavior and configs (#2267)
jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s: doc/source/jupyterhub/customizing/user-management.md

## Culling user pods

When users work with a JupyterHub deployment, will they reliably shut down their
servers manually when finished? Probably not. Due to this, it can be good to
have a system to shut down servers that are inactive after a configurable
duration of inactivity or a maximum amount of time. JupyterHub uses the
[jupyterhub-idle-culler](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub-idle-culler)
to do this.

When a user server has been shut down, the user will have to start their server
again on next visit. The in-memory state of their previous session will have
been lost, but opened notebooks are saved regularly into a `.ipynb_checkpoints`
folder and will typically not cause work to be lost.

```{note}
For more details on how the `jupyterhub-idle-culler` works and additional
configurations you may want to set on the user servers, see the [How it works
documentation](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub-idle-culler#how-it-works).

If you want to configure the culling of kernels that can help stop long running
code on the user servers, it can be useful to use

> [`singleuser.extraFiles`](schema_singleuser.extraFiles).

Author: I appreciate that this is referencing your solution [here](https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/issues/2244#issuecomment-865085937) for providing the `jupyter_notebook_config.py` file, which is very useful. I think as written, though, it is hard to understand how `singleuser.extraFiles` can help with culling. 

I might rewrite this as:
```
If you want to configure the culling of kernels using, for example, a kernel manager that can help stop long running
code on the user servers, it can be useful to use
[`singleuser.extraFiles`](schema_singleuser.extraFiles) to pass a `jupyter_notebook_config.py` file to `singleUser` servers with those configuration values like those documented in the [jupyterhub-idle-culler docs[(https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub-idle-culler#how-it-works) 
```

Reviewer: I tried addressing this in 6b8cef8! Thanks for your input!

## Culling user pods

When users work with a JupyterHub deployment, will they reliably shut down their
servers manually when finished? Probably not. Due to this, it can be good to
have a system to shut down servers that are inactive after a configurable
duration of inactivity or a maximum amount of time. JupyterHub uses the
[jupyterhub-idle-culler](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub-idle-culler)
to do this.

When a user server has been shut down, the user will have to start their server
again on next visit. The in-memory state of their previous session will have
been lost, but opened notebooks are saved regularly into a `.ipynb_checkpoints`
folder and will typically not cause work to be lost.

```{note}
For more details on how the `jupyterhub-idle-culler` works and additional
configurations you may want to set on the user servers, see the [How it works
documentation](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub-idle-culler#how-it-works).
```

> To disable `jupyterhub-idle-culler`, put the following into `config.yaml`:

Reviewer 2: Personally, I think it's preferable to describe the activity, rather than the specific package name in general, after the initial introduction of the package:

```suggestion
To disable culling, put the following into `config.yaml`:
```

```yaml
cull:
  enabled: false
```

The default Helm chart configuration of `jupyterhub-idle-culler` can be
inspected in the Helm chart's [values.yaml (Helm chart version
1.0.0)](https://github.com/jupyterhub/zero-to-jupyterhub-k8s/blob/1.0.0/jupyterhub/values.yaml#L529-L536)

> file. The Helm chart's configuration corresponds to flags in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
file. The Helm chart's configuration corresponds to command-line flags passed to the
```

otherwise make the user servers report themselves as active which is what
`jupyterhub-idle-culler` considers. To do so, you can mount a configuration file
to the user servers via [`singleuser.extraFiles`](schema_singleuser.extraFiles).

```yaml
singleuser:
  extraFiles:
    # jupyter_notebook_config reference: https://jupyter-notebook.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config.html
    jupyter_notebook_config.json:
      mountPath: /etc/jupyter/jupyter_notebook_config.json
      # data is a YAML structure here but will be rendered to JSON file as our
      # file extension is .json.
      data:
        MappingKernelManager:
          # cull_idle_timeout: timeout (in seconds) after which an idle kernel is
          # considered ready to be culled.
          cull_idle_timeout: 1200 # default: 0

          # cull_interval: the interval (in seconds) on which to check for idle
          # kernels exceeding the cull timeout value.
          cull_interval: 120 # default: 300

          # cull_connected: whether to consider culling kernels which have one
          # or more connections.
          cull_connected: true # default: false

>           # cull_busy: whether to consider culling kernels which are busy.

Reviewer 2: maybe a bit more on what 'busy' might mean

```suggestion
          # cull_busy: whether to consider culling kernels which are currently busy running some code.
```

```{note}
In JupyterHub, "inactivity" is defined as no response from the user's

> browser. JupyterHub constantly pings the user's JupyterHub browser session via the JupyterHub API

Reviewer: Hmmm, I think there is something not right with this sentence.

JupyterHub has a REST API. `jupyterhub-idle-culler` could use that REST API, and external user pods could use it - but it doesn't make sense for JupyterHub itself to use it right?

Author: Yes- you're right that is not clear. I'll take another pass.

```{note}
In JupyterHub, "inactivity" is defined as no response from the user's

> browser. The `jupyterhub-idle-culler` running on the `hub` pod constantly pings the user's JupyterHub browser session via the JupyterHub API

Author: I think this is clear... if wordy.

Reviewer: > pings the user's JupyterHub browser session via the JupyterHub API

Hmm, what is the JupyterHub API used specifically? I assume it isn't directly speaking with the user's browsers, but the user server.

### This is my understanding overviewed

- Idle culler knows JupyterHub
- JupyterHub knows the user server
- The user server knows the kernels and can know about requests from the browser

I lack understanding of jupyterhub-idle-culler's function, does it for example use the JupyterHub API to get information about running servers and then pings them by itself, or does it ask JupyterHub to poll the user servers for some updated information or similar? I think it asks for information about the user server, and then polls the user server but I'm not sure.

Author: Hm yes let me try to get this right. I see that `jupyterhub-idle-culler` (running on the Hub pod) is polling the Hub API for `users`, which is a GET endpoint that returns the user info but also the list of that user's servers along with a timestamp when they were launched, a `last_activity` timestamp, and some other status information. Here's an example:

```
{'kind': 'user', 'name': 'cdibble', 'admin': True, 'groups': [], 'server': '/user/cdibble/', 'pending': None, 'created': '2021-06-18T19:41:52.783461Z', 'last_activity': '2021-06-21T22:11:53.697681Z', 'servers': {'': {'name': '', 'last_activity': '2021-06-21T22:10:55.225000Z', 'started': '2021-06-21T19:42:50.076031Z', 'pending': None, 'ready': True, 'state': {'pod_name': 'jupyter-cdibble'}, 'url': '/user/cdibble/', 'user_options': {'profile': 'fry-2-vcpu-7gb-ram'}, 'progress_url': '/hub/api/users/cdibble/server/progress'}}}
```
That information is available because of regular POSTs to the Hub API, but those actually seem to originate from the Hub pod as well. So I suppose that `jupyterhub-idle-culler` is relying on JupyterHub to poll the user servers.

Incidentally, it does not currently ask for IPs (which you can get with the `/proxy` endpoint on the JupyterHub API). Using that endpoint to query user pods' IPs is part of how I am hoping change the culling behavior a bit.

So the above sentence might better read:

```
The `jupyterhub-idle-culler` running on the `hub` pod routinely pings JupyterHub API for information about user server activity, which is made available because JupyterHub is constantly polling kernels for activity and status information.
```

Author: What do you think @consideRatio?

Reviewer: @cdibble excellent investigation thank you for clearing this up!

I guess JupyterHub polls the user server rather than the kernels directly, and that the user server provides a summary based on its knowledge. How the user server acquired info about kernel activity is out of scope to discuss I think.

  every: <number-of-seconds-this-check-is-done>
```

The above options correspond to flags in the [jupyterhub-idle-culler](github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub-idle-culler) package. Full documentation of these and additional flags can be found in the [jupyterhub-idle-culler docs](github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub-idle-culler#as-a-standalone-script).

```{note}
While JupyterHub automatically runs the culling process, it is not a
replacement for keeping an eye on your cluster to make sure resources
are being used as expected.
```

```{note}

> There is a separate culling service for Jupyter Notebook that provides more fine-grained control over culling behavior for individual notebooks. That culling behavior has not yet been extended to Jupyter Lab [see here](https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyterlab/issues/6893). However, when running processes in Classic Notebook, these settings, if passed to user pods, can control culling on active processes regardless of web socket connection. See the [Jupyter Notebook Docs](https://jupyter-notebook.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config.html#options) for more info, specifically options: `MappingKernelManager.cull_idle_timeout`, `MappingKernelManager.cull_interval`, `MappingKernelManager.cull_connected`, and `NotebookApp.shutdown_no_activity_timeout`.

Reviewer: > There is a separate culling service for Jupyter Notebook that provides more fine-grained control over culling behavior for individual notebooks.

I think this is not culling of notebooks, but the kernels that notebooks are associated with.

```

```{note}

> There is a separate culling service for Jupyter Notebook that provides more fine-grained control over culling behavior for individual kernels (running notebooks or terminals). That culling behavior has not yet been extended to Jupyter Lab [see here](https://github.com/jupyterlab/jupyterlab/issues/6893). However, when running processes in Classic Notebook, these settings, if passed to user pods, can control culling on active processes regardless of web socket connection. See the [Jupyter Notebook Docs](https://jupyter-notebook.readthedocs.io/en/stable/config.html#options) for more info, specifically options: `MappingKernelManager.cull_idle_timeout`, `MappingKernelManager.cull_interval`, `MappingKernelManager.cull_connected`, and `NotebookApp.shutdown_no_activity_timeout`.

Author: `for individual kernels (running notebooks or terminals)` I know that you can control Terminal session culling as of Jupyter Notebook v6.1. So I believe this is accurate but I am not certain it is exhaustive.
